1
Chapter 1
THE PROBLEM AND ITS BACKGROUND
Introduction
Technologies in the Fourth Phase of Industrial Revolution are
dimming the lines between the physical, digital and biological spheres of
global production systems (Martin & Leurent, 2018). The current step of
technological development is employing the profound changes on the way
people live and work. Most especially nowadays, for companies, speed is
one of the outlined factors for the technological transformation and the
gateway of success. Thus, the primary goal of Information Technology field
is to create the bunch of processes easily and efficiently to all disciplines,
economies and industries with the aid of technology.
Learning session processing is being used by the organizations when
conducting seminars or sessions. It is being conducted when the delegate
of a certain institution asks for reservation slot of learning session or
seminar. Once it is being transacted, the organization needs to process the
request of the delegate for the smooth transitioning in preparing and
conducting a learning session for the delegates. Nevertheless, the
organization should employ the concepts in technological advancement for
the better outcome in processing the booked request and at the same time,
to meet the expectation and satisfaction of their delegates.
2
The Office of Asian Association of Schools HRMD Practitioners, Inc.
(AASHPI) is one of the organizations who conduct learning sessions.
However, the organization is making use of paper-based form and multiple
platforms to process the booked learning sessions. The delegate will have
to fill out the registration form whether they will download the PDF file of it
online through their website or claim it to the AASHPI office. The AASHPI
staff needs to encode the booked request made by the delegate and record
their attendance on the day of the learning session whether pen and paper
or various platforms like Google Docs, Joomla, Microsoft Office Application,
and many more. Also, the AASHPI staff will have to answer telephone or
cellphone calls for inquiries. Moreover, the AASHPI staff needs to ask the
delegate if they like to apply for membership or not. And there are also
walk-in delegates who want to attend on the day of learning session. These
processes consume too much time because the staff needs to record the
booked request made by the delegates using pen and paper and multiple
platforms.
In line with this, the researcher chose to develop a learning session
management system to help the said organization. The goal of this system
is to centralize in handling the booking processes into one automated
system, thus making the process easier, faster, and more convenient to
both the delegates and the staff.
3
Background of the Study
Company Background
Asian Association of Schools HRMD Practitioners, Inc. (AASHPI) is a
professional organization facilitates development of human resources
towards organizational productivity. With its genuine passion for
excellence, it provides learning activities for professional development to
equip individuals with the necessary competencies in carrying out their
respective duties and responsibilities to achieve organizational goals. It also
conducts researches to discover interventions to individual and
organizational concerns, and to introduce strategies to improve
organizational performance yet maintain employee work-life harmony.
AASHPI mission is to enhance and advance the science, art, and best
practices in human resource management and development in the
Philippines and in Asia for greater institutional effectiveness and efficiency,
and for a more enhanced personal quality of life.
AASHPI is propelled by its vision of becoming a leading organization
committed to excellence in people management and development,
organizational productivity, technological and career systems advancement
and institutional culture building.
AASHPI Learning Session is under supervision of Southville
International School and Colleges (SISC), specifically in the department of
Human Resource (HR). The said organization is located at 1281 Tropical
4
Avenue corner Luxembourg Street BF International, Las Piñas City. It is
headed by the AASHPI supervisor and being assisted by the AASHPI
Business Relations Associate. Since the organization is being runned by the
institution, the HR department of SISC coordinate with the AASHPI staff on
the day of learning events.
The Existing System and Design
The office of the Asian Association of Schools HRMD Practitioners,
Inc. is processing the booked request of delegates manually and using
multiple platforms. Delegate gets the registration form from the office and
fills it out accordingly. The AASHPI staff will assess the filled-out form and
asks the delegate to proceed to the Accounting Office for the payment.
Once the payment is done, delegate will have to go back to the AASHPI
office to claim the ticket as they attend to their booked request for learning
session.
5
Figure 1.1 shows the existing manual registration process of AASHPI.
6
Figure 1.2 shows the existing manual membership process of
AASHPI.
7
Figure 1.3 shows the existing manual payment process of AASHPI.
8
Figure 1.4 shows the existing manual attendance process of AASHPI.
9
Figure 1.5 shows the existing manual book process of AASHPI.
10
11
Figure 1.6 shows above the existing manual refund process of
AASHPI.
Problem Areas
Gathering data using multiple platforms and pen and paper is
tough to manage nowadays and it can take a considerable amount of
time to just search a document only to verify a specific data. The
current system is considered unorganized and cost inefficient
compared to automated system. With this kind of system of finding
every previous data for a specific delegate, referencing it would be
too tedious to the company and can affect their line of work. The
current process would cause another problem which is data
redundancy that would lead them to using more forms to
accommodate a learning session even if it a previous delegate.
Performance Problems
• Recording delegate Details is time-consuming
When the delegate drops by in AASHPI office or attends the
learning session, the AASHPI staff asks the delegate to fill out the
registration form. Also, whenever the delegate asks for the
reservation of the learning session via telephone, or e-mail, the
AASHPI staff advises them to download the PDF file of registration
form online and fill out it afterwards. These types of recording the
details of the delegate is time consuming and there is a possibility of
12
loss of information if there is a misstep in the process like a
punctuation error, etc.
• Repetitive order details
The dilemma of handling a single delegate with multiple
reservations and multiple platforms means problem for the booked
order details which would be a waste of paper and space of a storage
file.
Information (and data) problems
• Archiving of the past transactions
Error in a manual system is always unavoidable and so as the
multiple platforms and most of the time the arranging of the
documents is hard because you need to also fix the information on
each delegate.
• Decentralized of delegate’s information inputs
Since the AASHPI staff is using a multiple platform, there is a
possibility of redundancy of delegate’s information which makes
them hard to trace the information once it is being retrieved.
• Loss of Data and Files
Due to a lot of other files that are being kept by the AASHPI
Office, the filled-out form for the registration of the delegate that
includes important information may be misplaced and learning
13
eventually get lost. On the other hand, transferred data were only
saved on the computer of the department. Accidental deletion or
computer virus attack may remove those files without their
knowledge.
Economics Problems
• Waste of Paper
The AASHPI staff uses papers for the forms and stores it into a
storage medium which wastes paper and makes it monotonous for
the staff to go to and from just to retrieve a specific data.
Control Problem
• Documents are stored in filing cabinet
Documents of each delegate are placed in cabinets which take
a considerable amount of space in the shop and make it very tiring to
get information about the delegate.
• No backups exist to accommodate the loss of documents
If everything is to ruin the documents beyond any recognition,
there is no possible way to save the important information in the
documents.
• Integrity of encoded data
14
Data of the delegates are being encoded either pen and paper
or multiple platforms. Due to a lot of information to encode, the
AASHPI staff has the tendency to input the wrong data on the soft
copy.
Efficiency Problems
• Filed documents consume space
Because it is manually processed, the documents are stacked
up in the storage area of the AASHPI Office, consuming valuable
space.
• Waste of Space of a Storage drive
Saving an important file in an insufficient space of storage
drive is a dilemma most especially if there are some redundant files
saved on it.
Service Problems
• Time consumed in retrieving previous documents
When searching for a delegate’s information, the staff needs to
search the shelves individually which can take a huge amount of
time.
• Time consumed in telephone/cell phone calling
15
When calling the delegate for verification, the staff needs to get
their contact number and contact them if the customer is going to
attend the learning session or not one by one which can take a huge
amount of time.
Research Objectives
General Objective
The Learning Session Management System for (LMS) AASHPI is
proposed to solve the problems that are occurring in the manual system.
Specific Objectives
Listed down are the specific objectives:
• Integrate the manual process of handling the registration and
membership forms into an automated system of AASHPI learning
sessions.
• Manage all the input of AASHPI transactions.
• Allow the AASHPI staff to book and reserve a learning session for
the delegate using their respective account.
• Allow the delegates to request a reservation for learning session
using their respective accounts.
• Help the AASHPI supervisor to generate AASHPI reports.
16
Significance of the Study
The study aims to infer changes from manual to automated monitoring of
delegate’s booked request and input. This study will be significant to the
following:
• Learning Session Organizations – this study can improve the
monitoring of delegate’s booked request for AASHPI learning
sessions to immediately attend to any help that the AASHPI staff can
provide to the delegates. Automatic monitoring of the booked
request of delegates will help the organization take immediate action
while reducing the hassle that the delegates might experience.
• Learning Session Delegates – this study will help the delegates to
avoid problems that might occur while processing their booked
request through notifying the coordinating staff of what action should
be done ahead of time.
• Organization who Conducts Training Seminar – This study will help
other organization to smoothly conduct the training seminar to their
participants.
17
Scope and Limitations of the Study
The study was focused on developing an online system for the
booked requests made by the delegate.
The study limited itself to the development of the following:
• Requisition of Reservation
- A module for encoding the reservation details of the
delegate.
- Viewing of the reservation details made by the delegate.
• Application for Membership
- Registration module for the following type of AASHPI
membership: individual member, affiliate member and
junior affiliate member
- Viewing membership registration details.
• Approval of the Reservation
- Printing the session ticket
- Approve and reject request function
- Notify the delegate about AASHPI learning session
details.
• Attendance Record for Learning Session
- Confirming the attendance of the delegate
• AASHPI Book Sales
18
- A module for managing books sales for both delegate
and staff.
• AASHPI Reports
- Generate an annual report for AASHPI learning sessions:
Reservation Sales Report, Membership Sales Report and
Book Sales Report.
The proposed system will not include the development of the
following:
1. A module for online payment.
2. A module for Customer Feedback.
19
REVIEW OF RELATED LITERATURE
Technologies in the Fourth Phase of Industrial Revolution are
dimming the lines between the physical, digital and biological spheres of
global production systems (Martin & Leurent, 2018).
Manual vs. Automated
Manual process is being executed with the use of pen and paper.
With human intervention, manual processes are usually monotonous and
take too much time to finish. Humans do the tasks repetitively over a long
period of time, a task that usually requires precision and accuracy when
handling data. Also, for the process to be done within a lesser time,
organization needs to invest a large amount in human resources.
However, when the manual system turns into an automated system,
then it reduces the amount of time and makes a task fast, efficient and
reliable, using the computers or computer software. It is because
automated process is being executed with tool support. This also involves
less human investment since fewer errors can be committed and more
reliable data are being processed. Throughout history, automation has
represented an opportunity to create new value from the balance of the
classic paradigm of people, process and technology (IBM, 2018).
The development and assimilation of automated process in all
disciplines of society has affected in a transformation of people’s behavior
20
towards the traditional pen and paper tools (Isaias, et al., n.d.). The
adoption of technology has strengthened work and learning performance
by increasing promptness in task completion, organization of working
materials and capacity of storage. Furthermore, to improve the efficiency of
certain organization in handling processes is always determined by the
automated process (Abishov, 2014).
Although the popularity and value of technology is highly in-demand
in the society, the conventional pen and paper is still surpassed by some
domains. According to Fortunati and Vincent (2012), even though the
computer facilitates higher levels or writing effectiveness, most people are
still not willing to leave paper resources. Thus, the global use and
acceptance of information technology is unquestionable, the perseverance
of paper resources is equally undisputable. As dynamic and resourceful as
computer is, the prediction of a paperless office is far from reality (Luff et
al., 2007 &Holzingera Et al., 2011).
State of Learning Session Management System (Past, Present,
Future)
The primary goal of the organizations who conduct seminar to the
HRMD practitioners is to provide their delegates an enhancement and
advancement of science, art, and best practices in human resource
management and development globally for greater effectiveness and
21
efficiency, in the workplace (Heathfield, 2018). Therefore, it is not good for
the future of the organization if their staff is required to process information
by coming up with the paper works for their delegates. This is very stressful
for both employees and delegates. Training and development are basically
an important function within human resource departments (Sylvan, 2017).
According to Newman (2017), Management of Information Systems
was started in the field of printing press in 1980, when the people were
barely more than on-screen calculators. Using limited computer processing
power, people automated and organized some of the more material
administrative tasks basically undertaken in a print shop. Many
organizations notice releasing staff for traditional face-to-face courses as
too disorderly to the business, while others proactively tracked budget cuts
in travel and out-of-office costs associated with face-to-face options
(Schwartz, 2009). But in the year 1990, the accessibility and processing
power of hardware had rapidly improved. Furthermore, computerized
systems were commonly used by all administrative departments of all
industries. From there, the manual process of administrative loads was
gradually lessened as the development of Management of Information
System was quickly increasing.
In the present, the technology had a significant effect to the
coherence of the data being given and being taken. Technology can be a
big benefit for those willing to embrace it. Training is one area that stands
22
to benefit greatly from technological advances. The technology has been
around for years that allows employees to attend meetings virtually,
through conference calls and even video conferencing (Miller, 2016).
Majority of training session organizations are now using automated
systems. Delegate files are stored in database and it is free from losing the
actual document. The data is stored in a secure database with a reliable
back up. Papers and documents are used rarely compared to the old way of
working. For the future of learning management, it is guaranteed to say that
it will be as good as ever because of the integration of cloud storage so that
the data kept can be backed up again for maximum assurance of the
security of the documents (Azahar, 2018).
Roles of Learning Session Management System
With automated system nowadays, diminishing manpower is
concerned but cost efficient. Two roles of learning session Management
System are:
- Solving problems, both managerial and operational and
guaranteeing compliance with the standards of the
organization.
- Maintaining the confidentiality of the delegate’s information of
the organization.
23
Having a learning session management system is important to the
organization so that the learning session is secured and well taken care off.
One of the more important roles is the security of the given information
(ZeroRisk, 2017& Marr 2018). It is because technology is becoming more
advanced at such a quick pace, there is an even greater challenge to keep
intruders away from personal information records. The organization
prioritizes the security of their delegates and values relationship between
delegates and business (Gasco, et al., 2004). The features presented secure
the satisfaction of the delegates to the training sessions while decreasing a
considerable amount of workload to the staff.
Synthesis
Training of human resource practitioners in every organization
strengthens the organizational productivity (Broderick, 2018). It provides
learning programs to the human resource practitioners who possess
passion for excellence. As years go by, the number of the members of the
organization goes up and so the records and files these delegates. Having a
well-designed learning session management system ensures that data are
saved properly, delegates, and staff can save time especially every
reservation for the learning session.
Using Manual process can be easy and familiar to do, but in the long
process, especially when the number of participants goes up, it will be
24
difficult for the staff to handle all the learning session schedules and access
records of each participant. Using an automated system will minimize
human errors, reduce cost reductions and increase in performance
efficiency.
Theoretical / Conceptual Framework
Asian Association of Schools HRMD Practitioners, Inc. current
booking tracking system is conventional making use of a lot of files which
makes it more difficult to verify all entries related to the learning session
due to the constant need to cross reference the different files with each
other.
For the study, the researcher will develop the system to be hosted on
any delegate computer. All the data will be stored on a server and the
system will make use of the data from the server to provide the necessary
information in one place. The system will be making use of php and mySQL
technology in order to accomplish this.
25
From the illustration below (Figure 1.7) is an IPO diagram illustrating
the conceptual framework of the proposed system.
Figure 1.7 Conceptual Framework of AASHPI Learning Session
Management System
Definition of Terms
Asian Association of Schools HRMD Practitioners, Inc. – refers to the
organization in charge of seminars and convention for the HRMD
practitioners.
Examples of AASHPI Learning Sessions are:
• National Convention
• Establishment of Employee’s Manual
26
• Organizational Sensitivity
• Legal Guide for HR Practitioners
Delegate– It refers to the HRMD practitioners who book the request for the
certain learning session given by the AASHPI.
Human Resource Management Department (HRMD) – it is one of the
departments of the institutions or organizations who make up the workforce
of an organization, business sector, or economy.
Learning Session – refers to the human resource activity made by the
AASHPI staff.
Learning Session Management System - It is defined as a working system
wherein the employees of AASHPI may encode the AASHPI transactions
such as information of the delegate and the membership, attendance of the
various learning session programs, process of the payment, verification of
the request and e-mail notification request.
Maintenance– It pertains to the process of preserving the state of data as
well as modification of the said data.
Staff – It refers to the ones who process the AASHPI details.
27
Chapter 2
SYSTEM METHODOLOGY
This chapter presents the design of the proposed system which
contains the physical and logical design. It also presents the different
requirements such as testing, human resource, installation, training for
personnel, and documentation of the proposed system.
Description of the Proposed System
Physical Design
The “Learning Session Management System” is an information
system that can organize all AASHPI delegate information. The software
will record all delegates’ booked requests, information and sessions and
store it into a database. The advantage of this system is to lessen the time
consumed in answering up the forms when visiting the office. A manual
process means doing it manually, writing it on a piece of paper then listing
what the customer needs in their session. While the automated system for
the session, the staff will just input the delegate id and the information of
the delegate will appear. While in the manual system when periodic
appointment the delegate will have to sign a paper to confirm delegate’s
appointment while on the learning session management system the user
can directly input into the information of the delegate and it will be saved in
an instant. Human errors are common in manual processing, while the
automated system will provide more precise information regardless of the
28
amount of data stored in the database.
Figure
2.01
Entity Relation Diagram of the
Proposed System
Database Dictionary
Table 2.01 login
29
Field Name Description
loginID Unique ID for login
username Data element identifying the username of the user
password Data element identifying the password of the user
role determinant for user privileges
Table 2.02 user(staff)
Field Name Description
user_id Unique ID for staff
loginID Unique ID for login
user_name Data element identifying the name of the staff
user_email Data element identifying the email of the staff
user_contact Data element identifying the contact of the staff
user_username Data element identifying the username of the staff
user_status Data element identifying the status of the staff
Table 2.03 delagate
Field Name Description
delagateID Unique ID for delegate
memTypeID Unique ID for membershiptype
dloginID Unique ID for login
dnickname Data element identifying the nickname of the delegate
dgender Data element identifying the gender of the delegate
dschool
Data element identifying the name of the school of the
delegate
daddress Data element identifying the address of the school
dposition Data element identifying the delegate’s job in the school
dcontact Data element identifying the institution contact number
demail Data element identifying the school email
dfullname Data element identifying the name of the delegate
dusername Data element identifying the username of the delegate
dstatus Data element identifying the status of the delegate
mstatus Data element identifying the status of the membership
Table 2.04 session
Field Name Description
sessionID Unique ID for session
sname Data element identifying the session name
stype data element identifying the session type
30
svenue Data element identifying the session location
saddress Data element identifying the address of the session
sdate Data element identifying the session date
stimestart Data element identifying the time start of the session
stimeend Data element identifying the time end of the session
strack Unique ID for track
smaxattendees
Data element identifying the delegate max. number per
session
createdby Data element identifying the creator of the session
Table 2.05 reservation_tbl
Field Name Description
reservationID Unique ID for the reservation
sessionID Unique ID for the session
delagateID Unique ID for the delegate
trackID Unique ID for track
totalPayment Data element identifying the total payment of reservation
rMadeDate
Data element identifying the delegate’s reservation date
made
status Data element identifying the reservation status
strack Data element identifying the track reserved by the delegate
no
Data element identifying the number reserved by the
delegate
Table 2.06 book
Field Name Description
bookID Unique ID for the book
bookTitle Data element identifying the book title
bookCost Data element identifying the book cost
totalStock Data element identifying the total stock of the book
Table 2.07 bookpayment_tbl
Field Name Description
bookPaymentID Unique ID for the book payment
bookID Unique ID for the book
delagateID Unique ID for delegate
bstatus Data element identifying the status of the book reservation
payment Data element identifying the book payment
31
quantity Data element identifying the total number of books bought.
Table 2.08 membershiptype
Field Name Description
memTypeID Unique ID for the membership type
memTypeDesc Data element identifying the membership type
memTypeFee Data element identifying the membership type fee
memDiscount Data element identifying the membership type discount
Table 2.09 track_tbl
Field Name Description
trackID Unique ID for the track
track Data element identifying the track
dayno Data element identifying the day number of the track
Table 2.10 seminarfee
Field Name Description
seminarFeeID Unique ID for the seminar fee
SeminarFeeTyp
e Data element identifying the seminar fee type
PaymentRate Data element identifying the seminar fee payment rate
startCutOff Data element identifying the seminar fee start cut off
endCutOff Data element identifying the seminar fee end cut off
Table 2.11 attendance_tbl
Field Name Description
attendaceID Unique ID for the attendance
name Data element identifying the attendee(delegate)
track Unique ID for the track
time Data element identifying the attendance time
date Data element identifying the attendance date
32
Data Schema
Table 2.12 login
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
login ID loginID PK varchar 100 not null 10092
username username varchar 100 not null Alexis
password password varchar 100 not null 059bf68f71
role role varchar 100 not null delegate
Table 2.13 user(staff)
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
user id user_id PK int 11 not null 18
login ID loginID FK int 11 not null 39299
user name user_name varchar 250 not null Rex Tan
user email user_email varchar 250 not null tan@gmail.com
user contact user_contact int 12 not null 9218616261
user
username user_username varchar 250 not null Bhimby
user status user_status enum not null active
Table 2.14 delagate
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
delegate ID delagateID PK int 100 not null 17
membership
Type ID memTypeID FK int 11 not null 8
login ID dloginID FK varchar 100 not null
nickname dnickname varchar 100 not null marinel
gender dgender varchar 100 not null Female
school dschool varchar 100 not null SISC
address daddress varchar 100 not null Las Pinas City
position dposition varchar 100 not null HR staff
contact dcontact varchar 100 not null 9234567821
33
email demail varchar 100 not null tan@gmail.com
fullname dfullname varchar 100 not null Gen L. tan
username dusername varchar 100 not null Gen
delegate
status dstatus enum not null active
membership
status mstatus varchar 100 not null FOR APPROVAL
Table 2.15 session
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
session ID sessionID PK int 100 not null 19
name sname varchar 100 not null HR in the
Workplace
type stype varchar 100 not null Learning Session
venue svenue varchar 100 not null SISC
address saddress varchar 100 not null Las Pinas City
date sdate varchar 100 not null 9/3/2019
timestart stimestart varchar 100 not null 9:00 AM
timeend stimeend varchar 100 not null 4:00 PM
track strack FK varchar 100 not null 1
max. no. of
attendees smaxattendees varchar 100 not null 50
created by createdby varchar 100 not null admin
Table 2.16 reservation_tbl
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
reservation
ID reservationID PK int 100 not null 165
session ID sessionID FK varchar 100 not null 14
delagate ID delagateID FK varchar 100 not null nhyssa
track ID trackID FK varchar 100 not null 2
total
Payment totalPayment varchar 100 not null 8500
reservation
Made Date rMadeDate date not null 03-27-19
status status varchar 100 not null Attended
track strack varchar 100 not null 2
number no int 11 not null 1
34
Table 2.17 book
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
book ID bookID PK int 11 not null 1
book Title bookTitle varchar 100 not null WPS
book Cost bookCost int 11 not null 650
total Stock totalStock int 11 not null 50
Table 2.18 bookpayment_tbl
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
book
Payment ID bookPaymentID PK int 11 not null 38
book ID bookID FK varchar 11 not null 2
delagate ID delagateID FK varchar 11 not null sharon
status bstatus varchar 100 not null PAID
payment payment varchar 100 not null 3250
quantity quantity varchar 100 not null 2
Table 2.19 membershiptype
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
membership
Type ID memTypeID PK int 11 not null 5
membership
Type
Description
memTypeDesc varchar 30 not null Institutional
membership
Type Fee memTypeFee int 11 not null 1000
membership
Discount memDiscount int 11 not null 1500
Table 2.20 track_tbl
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
track ID trackID PK int 100 not null 2
35
track track varchar 100 not null Track 2
day number dayno varchar 100 not null day 1
Table 2.21 seminarfee
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
seminar Fee
ID seminarFeeID PK int 11 not null 1
Seminar Fee
Type SeminarFeeType varchar 30 not null Early Bird
PaymentRate PaymentRate int 11 not null 9000
start Cut Off startCutOff date not null 03/19/2019
end Cut Off endCutOff date not null 03/21/19
Table 2.22 attendance_tbl
Field Name Field Name in the
Table Key Data
Type Size Acceptance
Criteria Sample
attendance
ID attendaceID PK int 11 not null 7
name name varchar 100 not null adrian
track track FK varchar 100 not null 2
time time varchar 100 not null 3:18 AM
date date varchar 100 not null 03/22/19
Logical Design
1. Narrative Description of Proposed System
The proposed system will provide an automated learning
session management system for Asian Association of School HRMD
Practitioners, Inc. in managing AASHPI sessions with future
prospective delegates.
36
The proposed system can be accessed by the delegates and
staff using any functioning computer in the building. The delegates
and staff may access their personal profile along with any other parts
of the system based on their privileges.
The system will have a digital-list of AASHPI learning sessions
that are still open for the reservation including the delegates who
avail for the membership. Likewise, the official current delegates will
be included within the system. The system will automatically update
every time a session is closed or opened for reservation and when a
session availability status has been changed. The following are the
different functions addressed by the proposed system.
1.1 User Login
The proposed system will grant access to the following user:
(1) AASHPI Supervisor; (2) AASHPI staff and; (3) Delegates. All the
users will have the different level of access. Usernames and
passwords will be given to the said authorized users upon registering
to the system. The users will be prompted to enter the username and
password. In turn, the system will verify if the username and
password entered are valid. If both are valid, the system will permit
access to the following components (1) Registry of Delegates; (2)
Registry of members; (3) Registry of staff; (4) Profile editing; (5)
Assessment of delegates/member’s information; (6) Reservation; (8)
37
Notification of learning session announcements and schedules via
email; (9) AASHPI book reservation; (10) report generation for the
supervisor and; (10) maintenance module. Otherwise, the system will
deny the access to the user. The following are the different levels of
access that the system will provide:
1.1.1 AASHPI Supervisor Access (System Administrator)
The AASHPI Supervisor/System Administrator is the
only authorized person to access the maintenance module
wherein the administrator can add, update, delete reservations,
delegate and member information and session details. The
system administrator also has access to the registry module
for both delegate and staff, the only one who can grant
administrative rights to the staff, approve reservation and
membership of delegate. The system administrator may also
edit their personal account profile.
1.1.2 AASHPI Staff Access (Booking Agent)
AASHPI Staff Access is designated for the module of
reservation, evaluation of members/delegates and attendance
record of AASHPI whereas, it processes the reservation,
membership and the attendance details of a delegate/member.
38
This kind of user login can notify an AASHPI learning session
announcement and schedules to their respective delegates via
email. Furthermore, this is designated for the module of the
status of reservation and membership application.
1.1.3 Delegate Access (Requisitioner)
The delegate can only edit their personal account data,
view their current session reservation, request for another
reservation and sign up for the membership.
1.2 Membership Procedure
Below is a list of the step by step process of the AASHPI
membership for an aspirant delegate:
• The delegate will provide all his/her membership details asked by
the system.
• The delegate will then be able to view all his/her membership
details in the system.
• The delegate can claim the AASHPI membership ID which is
generated by the system in the AASHPI office or on the day of
learning session.
1.3 Reservation Procedure
Below is a list of the step by step process of the reservation for
aspiring delegates:
39
• The delegate will have to fill out the registration form on the
system for the reservation slot of learning session.
• Afterwards, the delegate will then be able to view all his/her
reservation details in the system.
1.4 Confirmation Procedure
Below is a list of the step by step process of the confirmation of
the session:
• The staff will receive the reservation details made by the delegate
on the system.
• The staff will check if all the reservation entries are valid.
• Once the entries are validated, the staff will notify the delegate
either via email or the system itself for the attendance procedures.
• If not, the staff will notify delegate via email to clarify about some
reservation details.
1.5 Attendance Procedures
Below is the list of the step by step process of the attendance
procedure:
• The delegate will present the ticket to the AASHPI staff on the day
of learning session.
• The staff will scan the ticket on the system.
40
• Once the scanning is done, the staff will ask the delegate to
proceed for the learning session proper. Otherwise:
• The delegate will update his/her data on the system.
1.6 Book Reservation Procedures
Below is the list of the step by step of Book Reservation
Procedures
• The Delegate will have to ask reservation for the purchase of book
if the delegate is interested.
• The staff will notify about the reservation of the book and then the
staff will evaluate the details.
• Once validated, the staff the staff will notify the delegate either via
email or the system itself for the claim of the book.
41
2. Dataflow Diagram of the Proposed System
Figure 2.02 Context Diagram
42
2.2 Dataflow Diagram Level 0
2.3 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Access Validation
Figure 2.03 Dataflow Diagram Level 0
43
2.4 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Generate Delegate Profile
Figure 2.05 Level 1 (Generate Delegate Profile)
44
2.5 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Create New Session
2.6 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Create Session Reservation & Level 2
Approve Session Reservation
Figure 2.06 Level 1 (Create New Session)
Figure 2.07 Level 1 (Create Session Reservation) &
Level 2 (Approve Session Reservation)
45
2.7 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Approve Membership and Dataflow Diagram
Level 2 Verify Membership Status
2.8 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Confirm Attendance
Figure 2.08 Level 1 (Approve Membership)
& Level 2 (Verify Membership Status)
Figure 2.09 Level 1 (Confirm Attendance)
46
2.9 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Create Book Reservation and Dataflow
Diagram Level 2 Approve Book Reservation
2.10 Dataflow Diagram Level 1 Generate AASHPI Reports and Level 2 Print
Demography, Membership Sales, Session Sales and Book Sales Report
Figure 2.10 Level 1 (Create Book Reservation)
& Level 2 Approve Book Reservation
Figure 2.11 Level 1 (Generate AASHPI Reports) & Level 2 (Print
Demography, Membership Sales, Book Sales and Session Sales Report)
47
3.0 Process Specification
Table 2.23 Process 1.0 Access Validation
Table 2.24 Process 1.1 Create User Account
Table 2.25 Process 1.2 Update User Account
Table 2.26 Process 1.3 Verify Username and Password
Input Output
1.Login Details 1. Access
PROCESS: All users will input their login details in the system to produce
access based the administrative rights given by the administrator.
Input Output
1.Login Details for Registration 1. Registered Login Details
PROCESS: Admin will register login details of staff in the system. On the
other hand, the delegate will register the delegate’s login details in the
system.
Input Output
1. Registered Login Details 1. Delegate Details
2. Login Details for Saving
PROCESS: All users can update their login details in the system.
Input Output
1. Saved Login Details
2. Login Details
1. Access
PROCESS: All users can login in the system and the system will verify if the
login details in the system or not.
48
Table 2.27 Process 2.0 Generate Delegate Profile
Input Output
1. Delegate Details 1. Delegate Profile
2. Delegate List
3. Delegate Membership Details
PROCESS: The delegate will input delegate details to generate delegate
profile, delegate list, and delegate information.
Table 2.28 Process 2.1 Edit Delegate Profile
Input Output
1. Delegate Details 1. Active Delegates for Saving
PROCESS: The delegate will register delegate details to save in the database.
Table 2.29 Process 2.2 View Delegate Profile
Input Output
1. Saved Delegate Details 1. Delegate Details for Deletion
2. Delegate Profile
3. Delegate Membership Details
PROCESS: The delegate can view delegate details in the system.
Table 2.30 Process 2.3 Delete Delegate Profile
Input Output
1. Delegate Details for Deletion 1. Inactive Delegate Details for Saving
PROCESS: The administrator can change the status of the delegate from
active to inactive or vice versa.
Table 2.31 Process 2.4 Print Delegate List
Input Output
1. Saved Delegate Details 1. Delegate List
PROCESS: The administrator or staff can print delegate list in the system.
49
Table 2.32 Process 3.0 Create New Session
Input Output
1. Session Details 1. Session Info
PROCESS: The staff will input session details to create session information.
Table 2.33 Process 3.1 Register Session Details
Input Output
1. Session Details 1. Registered Session Details
PROCESS: The staff will register session details to produce registered
session details.
Table 2.34 Process 3.2 Edit Session Details
Input Output
1. Registered Session Details 1. Registered Session Details for
saving
PROCESS: The staff will update session details if there are some changes.
Once the changes have been updated, the session details will proceed to the
saving process.
Table 2.35 Process 3.3 View Session Details
Input Output
1. Saved Session details 1. Session Details for Deletion
PROCESS: The staff will retrieve all the saved session details from the
system to update the status of the session details whether for deletion or not.
Table 2.36 Process 3.4 Delete Session Details
Input Output
1. Session Details for Deletion 1. Deleted Session Details
PROCESS: The staff will delete the session details from the system and it will
change the status of session details in the database.
50
Table 2.37 Process 3.5 Email Session Details
Input Output
1. Saved Session details 1. Session Information
PROCESS: The delegate will view the session information for the reservation
process.
Table 2.38 Process 4.0 Create Session Reservation
Input Output
1.Session Information
2. Session Reservation Details
3. Update Session Reservation
Status
1. Session Sales Details
2. Ticket
3. Session Reservation Information
PROCESS: The delegate will input the reservation details as the delegate
view the session information in the system to create a session sales details
for staff/administrator and ticket for delegate.
Table 2.39 Process 4.1 Register Session Reservation
Input Output
1.Session Information
2. Session Reservation Details
1. Session Reservation for Approval
PROCESS: The delegate will register the reservation details as the delegate
view the session information in the system. Once the registration of
reservation details has been made, it will create a registered reservation
details and it will update by the staff.
Table 2.40 Process 4.2 Approve Session Reservation
Input Output
1. Session Reservation for Approval
2. Update Session Reservation
Status
1. Accepted Session Reservation for
Saving
2. Rejected Session Reservation for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will update the session reservation status made by
delegate from the system.
51
Table 2.41 Process 4.2.1 View Reservation Status
Input Output
1. Session Reservation for Approval
2. Update Session Reservation
Status
1. Session Reservation Status
PROCESS: The staff will view the session reservation for approval from the
system for the status update of the session reservation
Table 2.42 Process 4.2.2 Accept Reservation Status
Input Output
1. Session Reservation Status 1. Accepted Session Reservation for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will accept and update session reservation status of the
delegate in the system if the requirements of the session reservation are
meet.
Table 2.43 Process 4.2.3 Reject Reservation Status
Input Output
1. Session Reservation Status 1. Rejected Session Reservation for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will reject and update session reservation status of the
delegate in the system if the requirements of the session reservation did not
meet.
Table 2.44 Process 4.3 View Approved Session Reservation
Input Output
1. Saved Session Reservation
Details
1. Session Reservation Info.
2. Session Sales Details
3. Session Ticket Details
PROCESS: The staff and delegate can view the approved session reservation
details in the system for the session sales report and session reservation
information respectively.
52
Table 2.45 Process 4.4 Print Session Ticket
Input Output
1. Session Ticket Details 1. Ticket
PROCESS: Once the session reservation has been approved by the staff, then
the delegate can generate ticket in the system.
Table 2.46 Process 5.0 Approve Membership
Input Output
1. Delegate Membership Details
2. Update Membership Status
1. Membership Discount Grant
2. Member List
3. Membership Sales Details
PROCESS: The delegate will input the membership details as the delegate
view the delegate information in the system. Once registration of the
membership details has been made, the staff will update the membership
status in the system to create membership discount grant, member list, and
membership sales details.
Table 2.47 Process 5.1 Apply Membership
Input Output
1. Delegate Membership Details 1. Registered Membership Details
PROCESS: The delegate will input the membership details as the delegate
view the delegate information in the system to produce registered
membership details.
Table 2.48 Process 5.2 Verify Membership Status
Input Output
1. Registered Membership
Details
2. Update Membership Status
1. Accepted Membership Details for
Saving
2. Rejected Membership Details for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will evaluate and update the registered membership
details made by the delegate whether accepted or rejected.
53
Table 2.49 Process 5.2.1 View Membership Status
Input Output
1. Registered Membership
Details
2. Update Membership Status
1. Membership Status
PROCESS: The staff can view the registered membership details in the
system.
Table 2.50 Process 5.2.2 Accept Membership Status
Input Output
1. Membership Status 1. Accepted Membership Details for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will accept and update the membership status of the
delegate in the system if the membership requirements are meet.
Table 2.51 Process 5.2.3 Reject Membership Status
Input Output
1. Membership Status 1. Accepted Membership Details for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will reject and update the membership status of the
delegate in the system if the membership requirements did not meet.
Table 2.52 Process 5.3 View Approved Membership
Input Output
1. Saved Membership Details 1. Membership Sales Details
PROCESS: The staff will view the membership sales details which are saved
in the system for the membership sales report.
54
Table 2.53 Process 5.4 Compute Membership Discount
Input Output
2. Membership Details for
Computation
2. Computed Membership
Discount
PROCESS: The staff will compute the membership discount for the delegate
who applied and had been approved the membership in AASHPI.
Table 2.54 Process 5.5 Validate Membership Expiration
Input Output
3. Computed Membership
Discount
3. Membership Discount Grant
4. Updated Membership Details for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will grant membership discount to the delegates who
applied and had been approved membership in AASHPI for one year.
Table 2.55 Process 5.6 Print Member List
Input Output
4. Saved Membership Details 5. Member List
PROCESS: The staff will generate the member list of the delegate who
applied and has been membership in AASHPI.
Table 2.56 Process 6.0 Confirm Attendance
Input Output
1. Session Reservation Info.
2. Attendance Details
1. Confirmed Attendance
2. Demography Details
PROCESS: The staff will confirm the attendance of the delegate in the system
to produce confirmed attendance and demography details
Table 2.57 Process 6.1 Check Attendance Status
Input Output
1. Session Reservation Info.
2. Attendance Details
1. Attendance Details for Saving
2. Confirmed Attendance
PROCESS: The staff will confirm the attendance of the delegate in the
system.
55
Table 2.58 Process 6.2 View Attendance Details
Input Output
1. Saved Attendance Details 1. Demography Details
PROCESS: The staff will view the attendance details in the system.
Table 2.59 Process 7.0 Create Book Reservation
Input Output
1.Book Reservation Details
2. Update Book Reservation Status
3. Book Details
1. Book
2. Book Sales Details
3. Book Inventory
PROCESS: The delegate will reserve AASHPI book in the system with the
approval of the delegate. Once the book reservation has been approved, the
delegate will have a reserve book and the staff will print the book inventory
and view book sales details.
Table 2.60 Process 7.1 Register Book Details
Input Output
1.Book Details 1. Registered Book Details
PROCESS: The staff will encode the book details in the system.
Table 2.61 Process 7.2 Approve Book Reservation
Input Output
1.Book Reservation Details
2. Registered Book Details
3. Update Book Reservation Details
1. Accepted Book Reservation for
Saving
2. Rejected Book Reservation for
Saving
PROCESS: The delegate will reserve a book in the system. Once the book
reservation has been made, the staff will update book reservation details if
the book requirements have met.
56
Table 2.62 Process 7.2.1 View Book Reservation
Input Output
1.Book Reservation Details
2. Registered Book Details
3. Update Book Reservation Details
1. Book Reservation Status
PROCESS: The delegate will reserve a book in the system. Once the book
reservation has been made, the staff will update book reservation details to
produce book reservation status.
Table 2.63 Process 7.2.2 Accept Book Reservation Status
Input Output
1. Book Reservation Status 1. Accepted Book Reservation for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will approve the book reservation status of the delegate
if the book requirements have met and save the accepted book reservation
details in the database.
Table 2.64 Process 7.2.3 Reject Book Reservation Status
Input Output
1. Book Reservation Status 1. Rejected Book Reservation for
Saving
PROCESS: The staff will reject the book reservation status of the delegate if
the book requirements did not meet and save the rejected book reservation
details in the database.
Table 2.65 Process 7.3 View Approved Reservation Details
Input Output
1. Saved Book Reservation Details 1. Book Sales Details
2. Book
PROCESS: The staff will view the book sales details in the system. On the
other hand, the delegate will notify about the book in the system.
57
Table 2.66 Process 7.4 Print Book Inventory Report
Input Output
1. Saved Book Reservation Details 1. Book Inventory
PROCESS: The staff can generate the book inventory report in the system.
Table 2.67 Process 8.0 Generate AASHPI Reports
Input Output
1.Demography Details
2. Reservation Sales Details
3. Membership Sales Details
4. Book Reservation Sales Details
1. Demography Report
2. Session Sales Details
3. Membership Sales Details
4. Book Sales Details
PROCESS: The admin will generate all the AASHPI reports in the system.
Table 2.68 Process 8.1 Print Demography Report
Input Output
1.Demography Details 1. Demography Report.
PROCESS: The admin can generate the demography report in the system
Table 2.69 Process 8.1.1 Categorize Session Per Track
Input Output
1.Demography Details
2. Saved Attendance Details
1. Session Per Track
PROCESS: The system can categorize the demography details per track to
easily track for administrator account.
Table 2.70 Process 8.1.2 Count Attendance Per Track
Input Output
1.Session Per Track 1. Demography Report
PROCESS: Once the session details has been categorized, the administrator
can view the demography report of the AASHPI.
58
Table 2.71 Process 8.2 Print Book Sales Report
Input Output
1. Book Sales Details 1. Book Sales Report
PROCESS: The admin can generate the book sales report in the system.
Table 2.72 Process 8.2.1 Categorize Book Per Type
Input Output
1.Book Sales Details
2. Saved Book Reservation Details
1. Book Per Type
PROCESS: The system can categorize the book reservation details per type to
easily track for administrator account.
Table 2.73 Process 8.2.2 Count Book Sales Per Type
Input Output
1.Book Per Type 1. Book Sales Report
PROCESS: Once the book details has been categorized, the administrator can
view the book sales report of the AASHPI.
Table 2.74 Process 8.3 Print Membership Sales Report
Input Output
1. Membership Sales Details 1. Membership Sales Report
PROCESS: The admin can generate the membership sales report in the
system
Table 2.75 Process 8.3.1 Categorize Membership Per Type
Input Output
1.Membership Sales Details
2. Saved Membership Details
1. Membership Per Type
PROCESS: The system can categorize the membership details per type to
easily track for administrator account.
59
Table 2.76 Process 8.3.2 Count Membership Sales Per Type
Input Output
1.Membership Per Type 1. Membership Sales Report
PROCESS: Once the membership details has been categorized, the
administrator can view the membership sales report of the AASHPI.
Table 2.77 Process 8.4 Print Session Sales Report
Input Output
1.Session Sales Details 1. Session Sales Report
PROCESS: The admin can generate the session sales report in the system.
Table 2.78 Process 8.4.1 Categorize Session Per Track
Input Output
1.Session Sales Details
2. Saved Session Reservation
Details
1. Session Per Track
PROCESS: The system can categorize the session reservation details per
track to easily track for administrator account.
Table 2.79 Process 8.4.2 Count Session Sales Per Track
Input Output
1.Session Per Track 1. Session Sales
PROCESS: Once the session details has been categorized, the administrator
can view the session sales report of the AASHPI.
60
System Requirements
Testing
The proposed system, Learning Session Management System will be
tested by the developer and AASHPI staff who is assigned in managing the
booked request, membership, attendance of the delegate during the
learning session. It aims to test the whole functionality of the system if it
conforms to specific requirements and answers some major needs of the
organization, its overall performance under various situations and its
limitations and restrictions. The AASHPI staff will be given testing accounts,
each with corresponding passwords, to check the system based on user
category – AASHPI Supervisor Account, AASHPI Staff Account, Delegate
Account. The AASHPI Supervisor will be able to check the following:
• The login authentication of the system
• The access control of each user depending on their category
• Requesting of reservations for learning session tracks
• The capability of the function to generate reports
• The capability of the system to work in an online environment
• Check the validity of the function like adding, modification, and
deletion of information.
61
Resources
Hardware Resources
The following minimum requirements needed for the workstation
Component Specifications
Processor Intel Core i3 or higher
Hard Drive 886GB or higher
RAM/Memory At least 4GB of RAM
Optical Device Optical Drive (DVD/CD-ROM)
External Device Printer
Network LAN/WIRELESS NETWORK
CONNECTION
Table 2.80 Hardware Components
Software Resources
The system will require the following said software below:
• Operating System: Windows 7 or higher
• WAMP / XAMP
• Internet Connection
• AtomIDE/Notepad++
Human Resources
AASHPI Supervisor (System Administrator)
System admin or AASHPI supervisor refers to the person
assigned for the whole system. All administrative tasks are
accessible to them. As such they require knowledge of
computers and related technology. For internal maintenance,
the system admin should have knowledge about PHP, MYSQL,
HTML, CSS and basic scripting language.
62
Delegate (Requisitioner)
This refers to all the delegates in the institution
nationwide who makes the reservation request for learning
session. They are added to the system by an admin or the
AASHPI supervisor. A delegate doesn’t really need a thorough
knowledge of computer to be able to access the system.
AASHPI Business Associate (staff)
This refers to the staff of Registration of AASHPI. They
don’t need a profound knowledge of computers and related
technology. Like the requisitioner, if they know how to open a
computer, connect to the internet and visit the system site,
they will be okay. AASHPI staff will only use the system in
approving the booked request by the delegates.
Installation
In order to avoid possible errors, the installation of the system must
be accomplished by the developer himself. The serves – database server to
which all data of the system go, and the web server that holds all system’s
web pages – must be provided by the client. This server specification will
63
then be used by the developer to configure the connections to the system
according the organization’s customized configuration.
Upon successful installation, the system must then be accessible to the
World Wide Web with its specific domain address provided by the
organization or within the private organization’s network only.
Training
The system developer will be the one to conduct the training with the
system admin and AASHPI staff. The AASHPI supervisor and the system
admin must attend to a series of training on how to manipulate and control
the whole system. They will be trained on how to do the following:
• Adding, updating, and deleting of user accounts
• Reservation processes like adding, updating, and deleting the entries.
• Requesting for learning session reservation
• Booking of request
• Generating of reports
• Notifying the delegate about the schedule of learning sessions
through email.
Documentation
A manual for the user in PDF form will be included in the system
compilation of all program files. This will help the user in all processes and
tasks the system can perform. It also contains a guide on how to
64
troubleshoot possible problems that may arise after the system
implementation. It also contains a guide on how to install and configure the
system, though that task falls on the developer himself, but a client may opt
to install and configure it on their own.
Implementation
The system will be hosted on the client’s domain with a dedicated
database server that will hold all information it contains. These
configurations must be accomplished upon the system installation.
In order to avoid possible loss of data, the system admin of the
organization must implement a proper backup plan for the system
database. A series of log backup must be performed daily at a specific time;
differential backup must be performed once a week; full backup must be
performed once a month. In addition, backup must be automated and must
be monitored from time to time. Thus, these tasks must be initiated by the
system administrator of the organization.
65
Chapter 3
PRESENTATION AND ANALYSIS OF THE SYSTEM
This chapter will present the screenshots of the system, system
testing, findings and solutions and the financial analysis of the system.
Graphical User Interface
66
Figure 3.01 Login Page (All users)
Figure 3.01 shows the Login page of all users. In this page, users will
input their ID number and password to enter the system. Once users’
details are authenticated, they will gain the privilege to navigate the system
depending on the account type that the users have.
Figure 3.02 Login Page (Admin/Staff)
67
Figure 3.02 shows the Dashboard page of the Administrator. In this
page, the administrator will be able to overview of all the access that
administrator has in the system. Information like the total number of staff,
delegates, members, attendees, for approval (session reservation,
membership, and book reservation), checking of attendees, reservation
sales, membership sales, book sales, and AASHPI Gross Income are can be
viewed on this page. At the upper right corner of the page, the logged in
user will be displayed. The system administrator can view the complete
details of each presented list by clicking the view button except at the
bottom part of the system.
Figure 3.03 Edit Profile Drop-down Menu (All users)
68
Figure 3.03 shows the drop-down menu of the Administrator. This
drop-down menu will be displayed also to the delegate and staff. When the
user clicks the “Edit Profile” in the drop-down menu, it will link to the
profile page of user. On the other hand, when the user clicks the “Logout”
in the drop-down menu will logout the user from the system.
Figure 3.04 Edit Profile Drop-down Page (All users)
Figure 3.04 shows the profile page of the Administrator. This page will be
displayed also to both delegate and staff. In this page, the user can edit
user’s profile depends on the preferred details.
69
Figure 3.05 Sidebar Menu (administrator)
Figure 3.05 shows the Administrator’s sidebar attached to the page of
the system. This sidebar attaches all the pages of the system. There are four
menus in the sidebar which are Dashboard, Manage, Approval, and Report.
Each menu except Dashboard menu has sub-menus. When the
administrator clicks any of sidebar menus, the certain sidebar will provide
sidebar sub-menus. Once the administrator clicks any of the sidebar menus
will locate to the administrator’s preferred page.
Figure 3.06 Session Table Page (Administrator and Staff)
70
Figure 3.06 shows the Session Table of Administrator and Staff. In
this page, it lists all the tracks that are being offered during AASHPI
Learning Session/National Convention. The user can update, view and
delete the session details by clicking the edit, view and delete button
respectively. In the upper right of the table, there are two buttons which are
“add session” Button and “Generate PDF” Button.
Figure 3.07 Session Modal (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.07 shows the Session Modal of the Administrator and Staff.
This will be displayed if the user clicks the “add session” button located at
the upper part session table page (See Figure 3.6). The user can add session
71
details which are being offered during AASHPI Learning Session/National
Convention. The bottom part of the modal will see the “Cancel” Button and
“Submit” Button. Once the user clicks the “Submit” Button, the session
details will store to the AASHPI database, particularly at the table named
“session”. Otherwise, once the user clicks the “Cancel” Button, it will
cancel the adding of session in the system.
Figure 3.08 PDF AASHPI Session (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.08 shows the PDF file of AASHPI Session of Administrator
and Staff. This will be displayed if the user clicks the “Generate PDF”
Button at the upper part of the session table (See Figure 3.6). This PDF file
will generate all the sessions that are being conducted during AASHPI
Learning Session/National Convention.
72
Figure 3.09 Edit Session Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.09 shows the Edit Session Page of Administrator and Staff.
This page will be displayed if the user clicks the “edit” button at the session
table page (See Figure 3.06). In this page, the user can edit session details
depends on the preferences of the details. On the bottom part of the page,
there will be two buttons which are “Submit” and “Go Back Session
Table”. When the user clicks the “Submit” Button, the edited session
details will update the AASHPI database particularly in the “session” table.
If the user clicks the “Go Back Session Table”, the page will go back to the
session table.
73
Figure 3.10 Membership Type Table Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.10 shows the Membership Type Table of Administrator and
Staff. In this page, it lists all the membership type details that are being
offered in AASHPI. The user can update, view and delete the membership
type details by clicking the edit, view and delete button respectively. In the
upper right of the table, there is one button which is “add type” Button.
74
Figure 3.11 Edit Membership Type Table Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.11 shows the Edit Membership Type Page of Administrator
and Staff. This page will be displayed if the user clicks the “edit” button at
the membership type table page (See Figure 3.10). In this page, the user can
edit membership type details depends on the preferences of the details. On
the bottom part of the page, there will be two buttons which are “Edit” and
“Go Back Membership Type Table”. When the user clicks the “Edit” Button,
the edited membership type details will update the AASHPI database,
particularly in the “membershiptype” table. If the user clicks the “Go Back
Membership Type Table”, the page will go back to the membership type
table.
75
Figure 3.12 Membership Type Modal (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.12 shows the Membership Type Modal of the Administrator
and Staff. This will be displayed if the user clicks the “add type” button
located at the upper part membership type table page (See Figure 3.10).
The user can add membership type details. The bottom part of the modal
will see the “Cancel” Button and “Submit” Button. Once the user clicks the
“Submit” Button, the membership type details will store to the AASHPI
database, particularly at the table named “membershiptype”. Otherwise
once the user clicks the “Cancel” Button, it will cancel the adding of
membership type in the system.
76
Figure 3.13 Book Table Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.13 shows the Book Table of Administrator and Staff. In this
page, it lists all the book details that are being offered in AASHPI. The user
can update, view and delete the book details by clicking the edit, view and
delete button respectively. In the upper right of the table, there are two
buttons which are “add book” Button and “Generate PDF” Button.
77
Figure 3.14 Edit Book Details Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.14 shows the Edit Book Details Page of Administrator and
Staff. This page will be displayed if the user clicks the “edit” button at the
book table page (See Figure 3.13). In this page, the user can edit book
details depends on the preferences of the details. On the bottom part of the
page, there will be two buttons which are “Edit” and “Go Back Book Table”.
When the user clicks the “Edit” Button, the edited book details will update
the AASHPI database, particularly in the “book” table. If the user clicks the
“Go Back Book Table”, the page will go back to the book table.
78
Figure 3.15 Book Details Modal (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.15 shows the Book Details Modal of the Administrator and
Staff. This will be displayed if the user clicks the “add book” button located
at the upper part book table page (See Figure 3.13). The user can add book
details. The bottom part of the modal will see the “Cancel” Button and
“Submit” Button. Once the user clicks the “Submit” Button, the book
details will store to the AASHPI database, particularly at the table named
“book”. Otherwise once the user clicks the “Cancel” Button, it will cancel
the adding of book in the system.
79
Figure 3.16 PDF File AASHPI – BOOK INVENTORY (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.16 shows the PDF file of AASHPI BOOK Inventory of
Administrator and Staff. This will be displayed if the user clicks the
“Generate PDF” Button at the upper part of the session table (See Figure
3.13). This PDF file will generate all the book details and that includes the
book cost and the remaining stocks of the book.
80
Figure 3.17: Seminar Investment Fee Table Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.17 shows the Seminar Investment Fee table page of
Administrator and Staff. In this page, it lists all the Seminar Fee Details that
are being offered in AASHPI. The user can update, view and delete the
Seminar Investment Fee Details by clicking the edit, view and delete button
respectively. In the upper right of the table, there is one button which is
“add fee” Button.
81
Figure 3.18 Edit Seminar Investment Fee Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.18 shows the Edit Seminar Investment Fee Page of
Administrator and Staff. This page will be displayed if the user clicks the
“edit” button at the seminar investment fee table page (See Figure 3.17). In
this page, the user can edit seminar investment details depends on the
preferences of the details. On the bottom part of the page, there will be two
buttons which are “Edit” and “Go Back Seminar Investment Fee Table”.
When the user clicks the “Edit” Button, the edited Seminar Investment Fee
details will update the AASHPI database, particularly in the “seminarfee”
table. If the user clicks the “Go Back Seminar Investment Fee Table”, the
page will go back to the Seminar Investment Fee table.
82
Figure 3.19 Seminar Fee Details Modal (Administrator and Staff
Figure 3.19 shows the Seminar Fee Details Modal of the
Administrator and Staff. This will be displayed if the user clicks the “add
book” button located at the upper part seminar investment fee table page
(See Figure 3.17). The user can add seminar fee details. The bottom part of
the modal will see the “Cancel” Button and “Submit” Button. Once the user
clicks the “Submit” Button, the seminar fee details will store to the AASHPI
database, particularly at the table named “seminarfee”. Otherwise once the
user clicks the “Cancel” Button, it will cancel the adding of seminar fee in
the system.
83
Figure 3.20: Staff Table Page (Administrator)
Figure 3.20 shows the Staff Table Page of Administrator. In this page,
it lists all the staff details that is part of AASHPI. The administrator can
update, view and delete the staff Details by clicking the edit, view and
delete button respectively. In the upper right of the table, there is one
button which is “add staff” Button.
84
Figure 3.21 Email Session Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.21 shows that administrator and staff can both send an
email to the delegate by typing the necessary information in the textbox
and clicking the “submit” button.
85
Figure 3.22: Add Staff Modal (Administrator)
Figure 3.22 shows the Add Staff Modal of the Administrator. This will
be displayed if the administrator clicks the “add staff” button located at the
upper part of staff table page (See Figure 3.20). The administrator can add
staff details. The bottom part of the modal will see the “Cancel” Button and
“Submit” Button. Once the user clicks the “Submit” Button, the staff details
will store to the AASHPI database, particularly at the table named “user”.
Otherwise once the user clicks the “Cancel” Button, it will cancel the adding
of staff in the system.
86
Figure 3.23 Reservation Table for Approval Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.23 shows Reservation Table for Approval Page of
Administrator and Staff. In this page, it lists all for approval in the session
reservation made by the delegate. The user can view all for approval
session reservation by clicking the view button. In the upper right of the
table, there is a “filter” button that filters the data based on session track.
87
Figure 3.24 Member’s List Table Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.24 shows Member’s List Table Page for Approval Page of
Administrator and Staff. In this page, it lists all for approved and for
approval membership in AASHPI. In the right of the table, there is a
“Approved” Button wherein, once the user clicks this button, it will
automatically approve the membership application made by the delegate.
88
Figure 3.25 Attendance Table Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.25 shows Attendance Table Page of Administrator and Staff.
In this page, it lists all for attended and for not attended in the attendance of
AASHPI Learning Session and National Convention. In the right side of the
table, there are 3 buttons which are view button, attended button, and not
attended button. Once the user clicks the view button, the attendance
details will view by linking the view page of attendance details. If the user
clicks the attended button, it will display “Attended” at the status column.
Otherwise it will display “Not Attended” if the user clicks the unattended
button.
89
Figure 3.26 Book Payment Page (Administrator and Staff)
Figure 3.26 shows Book Payment Table Page of Administrator and
Staff. In this page, it lists all for approval book reservation. At the right side
of the table, there is a “paid” button whereas, once the user clicks the
“paid” button, it will display “Approved” in the status column.
90
Figure 3.27 Session Reservation Sales Table Page (Administrator)
Figure 3.27 shows Session Reservation Sales Table Page of
Administrator. In this page, it generates session reservation sales during
the Learning Session or National Convention of AASHPI.
91
Figure 3.28 Membership Sales Table Page (Administrator)
Figure 3.28 shows Membership Sales Table Page of Administrator. In
this page, it generates all membership sales during the Learning Session or
National Convention of AASHPI.
92
Figure 3.29 Attendance Report Table Page (Administrator)
Figure 3.30 shows Session Attendance Table Page of Administrator.
In this page, it generates demography report of the delegate during the
Learning Session or National Convention of AASHPI.
93
Figure 3.30 Dashboard (Delegate)
Figure 3.31 shows the Dashboard page of the Delegate. In this page,
the delegate will be able to overview of all status of the session reservation,
membership application and book reservation. At the left side is the sidebar
of the delegate whereas they can manage the session reservation and book
reservation. At the upper right of the page, the username of logged in
delegate will be displayed.
94
Figure 3.31 Session Table Page (Delegate)
Figure 3.32 shows Session Table Page of the Delegate. In this page,
the delegate will be able to reserve session depends on the delegate’s
preferences. The delegate can view the session details by clicking the view
button. The delegate also can reserve session track in the system by
clicking the reserve session button. Once the delegate made the reservation
already, the delegate can view the payment details by clicking the payment
summary button.
95
Figure 3.32 Book Table Page (Delegate)
Figure 3.33 shows the Book Table Page of the Delegate. In this page,
the delegate will be able to reserve book depends on the delegate’s
preferences. The delegate can view and reserve the book by clicking the
view details button.
96
Figure 3.33 View Book Details with Summary Books Ordered Page
(Delegate)
Figure 3.34 shows View Book Details with Summary Books Ordered
Page of the Delegate. In this page, the delegate will be able to view the
book details and at the same time reserve book depends on the delegate’s
preferences. At the down part of the page, there are two buttons which are
“Buy Button” and “Go Back Book Table” Button. Once the delegate clicks
the “Buy” Button, the summary of books ordered table will update the
payment details of the book. On the other hand, if the delegate clicks the
“Go Back Book Table” Button, the system will go back to the book table
page of the delegate.
97
Figure 3.34 Summary of Reservation Table Page (Delegate)
Figure 3.35 shows Summary of Reservation Table Page of the
Delegate. In this page, the delegate will be able to view the summary of
session reservation once the delegate made the reservation.
98
Figure 3.35 Off-site Payment Procedure Page (Delegate)
Figure 3.36 shows the page of the off-site Payment Procedure page of
the delegate. This will display the procedure that the delegate should follow
once reserving a book or session.
99
Figure 3.36 Ticket View Button (Delegate)
Figure 3.37 shows that ticket view button of the delegate page. This
will be shown if the staff approved the delegate’s reservation in session.
The delegate can click the button for the printing of ticket.
100
Figure 3.37 Print Ticket Button (Delegate)
Figure 3.38 shows that the print ticket button of the delegate page in
the system. By clicking the “Print” button, the system can print the session
ticket with the header through the printer installed in the computer.
101
System Testing and Findings
The following are the issues, findings, and results of the testing done
for AASHPI Learning Management System.
• Check whether the system connects with the database
Findings: Check data provided for SQL Server
Solutions: Check connection string for validation
• Check the log in access of user
Findings: Only the system administrator should have access to all
forms
Solution: Upon successful login, a variable will dictate which page a
user can access
• Adding, Updating and Deleting of System User
Finding: The System Administrator should only be the one who can
perform the adding, updating and deleting of system user.
Solutions: The system would check the user’s account type upon log
in in the system.
• Prevent the system from accepting invalid characters
Findings: The pages should not accept invalid characters that the
database rejects.
Solutions: Functions within the codes were created to verify accepted
characters and numbers to validate with the database.
102
• Prevent the system from accepting null character
Findings: The forms should not accept null character that the
database rejects except if the field is not really a required field (e.g.
Nick Name)
Solutions: Functions within the codes were created to verify that field
contents are not null.
Benefits
Tangible Benefits
• Digitally stored data will provide easier and less time-consuming
access.
- The system will store all the records for updating and report
generation. This would also serve as a future reference. The
system will also grant access to certain users to be able to edit
recorded information if needed.
• Organized storing data
- The records will have all the data needed which can be used as
a future reference.
• Monitoring reservation request made by delegate
- The proposed system would allow the user to easily monitor or
search for a specific reservation form.
103
Intangible Benefits
• Data is encoded in digital format
- There will be less human error in encoding of data. Same data
are being encoded in the system with the use of the same
format as the manual forms.
• Generation of report is not time consuming
- The reports would be printed based on the data encoded in the
system. This would allow the user to lessen the time consumed
for encoding the data to be printed and generated.
• Data are more secured
- Only capable users can use the system if the users were given
a username and password. This allows the storing and flow of
data to be secured.
104
Cost Benefit Analysis
a. Operational Feasibility
The AASHPI Learning Management System is an automated
database system that will give an easy monitoring of delegate’s reservation
form for AASHPI session by the delegate itself and the system
administrator. It also allows the AASHPI staff to digitally monitor the
mentoring reports of each international student while increasing the
security of the information. This system will lessen the redundancy and
errors in encoding and updating of records. All data and transactions will be
backed-up within the scheduled time within the week by system
administrator to avoid data loss.
b. Technological Feasibility
The proposed system is exclusive for AASHPI and cannot be marked
in the local market. The system will give fast, accurate and secured results
of data and results.
c. Economic Feasibility
The system requires a php server. This cost will the expansion
capability of the company should they see to do so.
d. Schedule Feasibility
The system will undergo system testing and troubleshooting before
the Asian Association School HRMD Practitioner, Inc. use it.
105
Financial Analysis
1. Development Cost of Proposed System
Table 3.01 Cost Equipment
Microsoft Office 2017
Microsoft SQL Server
Business Intelligence
Computer Unit
Printer
Developer’s Fee Php 70,800.00
Total Development Cost
Php 70,800.00
As a Scholar of Southville International School and Colleges, the
institution has given us some opportunities like to use some of its assets.
Since this system will soon be used by the AASHPI, one of the affiliates of
Southville, the System will be owned by the organization. And as a way of
giving back our gratitude to the school’s founder, this system will be of no
cost.
106
2. Annual Operating Cost of the Current System
Unit Cost per
month
Total Cost per
year
Total Cost for
Five Years
Printing
Cartridge (Ink) 1900.00 22,800.00 114,000.00
Long Bond Paper (2
reams/mo.) 260.00 3,120.00 15,600.00
Short Bond Paper (2
reams/mo.) 260.00 3,120.00 15,600.00
Miscellaneous Cost
Sun Broadband bill per
month 888.00 10,656.00 53,280.00
Labor Expense
AASHPI Staff 9000.00 108,000.00 540,000.00
Total Operating Cost PHP 147,696.00 PHP 738,480.00
3. Annual Operating Cost of the Proposed System
Unit Cost
per month
Total Cost per
year
Total Cost for
Five Years
Printing
Cartridge (Ink) (6
Cartridges/yr.) 1900.00 11,400.00 57,000.00
Long Bond Paper (1
ream/mo.) 130.00 1,560.00 18,720.00
Short Bond Paper (1
ream/mo.) 130.00 1,560.00 18,720.00
Miscellaneous Cost
Sun Broadband bill per
month 888.00 10,656.00 53,280.00
Labor Expense
AASHPI Staff 9000.00 108,000.00 540,000.00
Total Operating Cost PHP 133,176.00 PHP 665,880.00
101
Table 3.02 Annual Operating Cost of the Current System
Table 3.03 Annual Operating Cost of the Proposed System
107
Annual Benefits = Total Annual Operating Cost of the Manual System – Total Annual
Operating Cost of the Proposed System
Annual Benefits = Php 738,480.00 – Php 665,880.00
Annual Benefits = Php 72,600.00
Payback = Development Cost/Annual Benefits
Payback = Php 70,800.00 / Php 72,600.00
Payback = 0.98
108
Chapter 4
SUMMARY, CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
In this chapter, the researcher discussed the summary, conclusion,
and recommendations of the developed system.
Summary
Asian Association of School HRMD Practitioner, Inc. is a HRMD
organization that helps every Human Resource Personnel of each school to
practice excellence in career systems advancement and institutional culture
building by conducting HR seminar. As being said, the researcher has
developed a monitoring system which automated the monitoring the
reservation of seminars, membership applications, attendance monitoring,
and sales report of the delegates. Additionally, the developed system has
eliminated manual work such as manual writing of registration forms of
reservation and membership application, as well as the attendance
monitoring of the student.
Based on the study, the researcher was able to develop an AASHPI
Learning Management System. This system can help the organization to
generate reports with regards to the status of any AASHPI activities of all
delegates in a user-friendly and reliable manner.
Conclusion
Based on the result of study/research, the following can be inferred:
109
• Since the delegate will not anymore use paper and pen when filling
out the application forms, the time consumed when doing it was
already lessening using the system.
• There will be lesser error when transferring data to the AASHPI
reports since it will automatically be generated by the system.
• Data can be easily be retrieved from the system when user needs it.
• The printing cost will also be lesser since there’s no more need to
reproduce registration forms that are to be filled out by the delegates.
• The possibility of losing registration form wills not anymore, a big
issue since there will be a soft copy available in the system.
Recommendation
Based on the study, the following can be recommended:
• For better experience, the use of mobile application of application of
membership and reservation is highly recommended.
• Allowing the delegates to fill out the Participant Reaction
Questionnaire online.
• Allowing the delegates to pay their reservation, membership
application online.
REFERENCES
Books:
IBM. (2018). The Evolution of Process Automation. Retrieved December 3,
2018, from http://www.vvsg.be/opleidingen/Presentaties/Durven met
110
dienstverlening/02_Daar komen de chatbots
enrobots_intellegentautomation_Sonia Van Ballaert.pdf
Journals/Periodicals:
Abishov, N., Phd., Asan, D., Kanat, A., &Erkisheva, A. (2014). Development
of an Automated Information System University Management.
Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, 550-554.
doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2014.07.434
Gasco, J., Llopis, J., & Gonzalez, M. (n.d.). The use of information
technology in training human resources: An E-learning case study.
Retrieved December 4, 2018, from
https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/df35/e6d65a6e00b031a73871ab918438
7e638795.pdf
Holzingera, A., Baernthaler, M., Pammer, W., Katz, H., Bjelic-Radisic, V.,
&Ziefle, M. (2011).Investigating paper vs. screen in real-life hospital
workflows: Performance contradicts perceivedsuperiority of paper in
the user experience. International Journal Human-Computer Studies,
69,563–570.
Isaias, Pedro, et al. (n. d.). “AN EMPIRICAL STUDY ON COMPUTER AND
PAPER BASED RESOURCES: ARE THEY COMPETITIVE OR
COMPLIMENTARY MEANS?” IADIS International Journal on Computer
Science and Information Systems, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 129–144.,
www.iadisportal.org/ijcsis/papers/2015180209.pdf.
111
Luff, P., et al. (2007). AugmentedPaper: Developing Relationships Between
Digital Content and Paper. In N. Streitz, A. Kameas&I.Mavrommati
(Eds.), The Disappearing Computer (pp. 275 – 297). Berlin Heidelberg:
SpringerVerlag.
Electronic Sources:
Azahar, W. (2018, August 29). Five corporate training trends you need to
know. Retrieved December 4, 2018, from
https://www.humanresourcesonline.net/features/five-corporate-
training-trends-you-need-to-know/
Broderick, M. (2018, September 25). Use Training Technology to More
Effectively Engage Participants. Retrieved December 4, 2018, from
https://www.thebalancecareers.com/use-training-technology-more-
effectively-1919292
Fortunati, L., & Vincent, J. (2012). Sociological insights on the comparison
of writing/reading on paperwith writing/reading digitally.
Heathfield, S. M. (2018, October 30). The Importance of Human Resources
Management. Retrieved December 4, 2018, from
https://www.thebalancecareers.com/what-is-the-importance-of-human-
resources-management-1917588
Kearney, A. (2017, March). Technology and Innovation for the Future
Production: Accelerating Value Creation. Retrieved December 3, 2018,
from
112
http://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_White_Paper_Technology_Innova
tion_Future_of_Production_2017.pdf
Marr, B. (2018, April 13). Why Data Is HR's Most Important Asset? Retrieved
December 4, 2018, from
https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2018/04/13/why-data-is-hrs-
most-important-asset/#791c1cae6b0f
Miller, B. (2016, July 4). Ways to Use Technology in Employee Training.
Retrieved December 4, 2018, from
https://hrdailyadvisor.blr.com/2016/07/04/ways-use-technology-
employee-training/
Newman, A. (2017, January 16). The History of MIS. Retrieved December 4,
2018, from https://www.tharstern.com/history-of-mis
Schwartz, J. (2009, October). Effective use of technology in training.
Retrieved December 4, 2018, from
https://www.bcs.org/content/conWebDoc/32836
Sylvan, R. (2017, September 26). Importance of Training & Development
Department in HRImportance of Training & Development Department
in HR. Retrieved December 4, 2018, from https://bizfluent.com/about-
6533241-importance-training-development-department-hr.html
ZeroRisk Hr. (2017, December 19). HR Data Security: What You Need to
Know to Protect Sensitive Records. Retrieved December 4, 2018, from
https://www.zeroriskhr.com/blog/employee-data-privacy-security
113
APPENDIX A
114
Company Profile
115
116
APPENDIX B
Project Time TableAPR
W3 W4 W1 W2 W3 W4 W1 W2 W3 W4 W1 W2 W3 W4 W1 W2 W3 W4 W1
Conducting Initial
Research
Data Gathering
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
First Defense
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Submission of
Revised Chapter 1-4
Program
Development
Appendices
Final Defense
Revisions
Re demonstration
Submission of Final
Papers
DEC JAN FEB MAR
20192018
NOV
117
APPENDIX C
Letter to Conduct Study/Research
APPENDIX D
Request for Thesis Adviser
118
APPENDIX E
Consultation Record
119
APPENDIX F
Activities Checklist for Thesis Submission
120
121
APPENDIX G
Sample form of Registration (Learning Session)
122
APPENDIX H
Sample Form of Registration (National Convention)
123
124
APPENDIX I
Recommendation for Final Defense
APPENDIX J
Image During Oral Defense
125
APPENDIX K
Turnitin Result
126
APPENDIX L
User’s Manual
Introduction
This user manual of AASHPI Learning Session Management System
will help new users to efficiently use the key features of the said program.
This is a run through of a step-by-step way to use the program effectively.
Logging-in in the SISC International Students Services System (All Users)
1. On the Log In page, you should input your username and your
password so that you can log in to the system.
2. Click the sign-in button to verify the inputted details.
If you do not have an account yet, just click the “Sign Up Here” link and the
system will guide you on what to do.
Navigating the Admin Dashboard (Admin)
127
1. After a successful log in, the administrator account will be
directed to the admin dashboard.
2. There will be 13 panels at the admin dashboard, at the first nine
panel of the page show the number of staff, delegates, members,
attendees, session reservation, membership status, book
reservation, approve attendance and book claim and by clicking
those panels will allow the user to navigate other pages. But the
last four panels will show the total income in session reservation
sales, membership sales, book sales and AASHPI gross income.
Navigating Staff Page (Admin)
128
1. Upon clicking the staff panel at the admin dashboard, the system will
link you to the staff page whereas you can edit, view and delete staff
by clicking their respective buttons.
2. You can add staff by clicking the “Add Staff” Button at the upper
right corner of the page.
Navigating Delegate Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the delegate panel at the admin/staff dashboard, the
system will link you to the delegate page whereas you can edit, view
and change status of the delegate by clicking their respective buttons.
2. You can add staff by clicking the “Add Delegate” Button at the upper
right corner of the page.
129
3. At the bottom part of the delegate page, you can print the delegate
list by clicking the “Print Button”.
Navigating Member Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the delegate panel at the admin/staff dashboard, the
system will link you to the member page.
130
2. You can filter member based on the membership type of the
members by clicking the filter button and at the left side of the page.
3. You can print the member’s list by clicking the “Print” button at the
bottom part of the page.
Navigating Attendance Report Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the attendance panel at the admin/staff dashboard, the
system will link you to the attendance report page.
2. You can filter attendance based on the session track that they
attended by clicking the filter button and at the left side of the page.
131
Navigating Session Reservation Approval Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the session reservation approval panel at the
admin/staff dashboard, the system will link you to session
reservation approval page.
2. You can approve or reject the session reservation made by the
delegate by clicking the “view” button.
3. Upon clicking the “view” button, you can approve or reject the
session reservation made by the delegate by clicking the approve or
reject button respectively.
4. You can filter the reservation approval based on the selected track by
clicking the “filter” button.
Navigating Membership Approval Page (Admin and Staff)
132
1. Upon clicking the membership approval panel at the admin/staff
dashboard, the system will link you to membership approval page.
2. You can approve or reject the membership application of the
delegate by clicking the “approve” or “reject” button.
3. You can filter the membership application based on the membership
type by clicking the “filter” button.
Navigating Book Reservation Approval Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the book reservation approval panel at the admin/staff
dashboard, the system will link you to book reservation approval
page.
2. You can approve or reject the book reservation made by the delegate
by clicking the “paid” and “unpaid” button respectively.
Navigating Confirm Attendance Page (Admin and Staff)
133
1. Upon clicking the confirm attendance panel at the admin/staff
dashboard, the system will link you to confirm attendance page.
2. You can update the attendance details of the delegate by clicking the
“attended” or “unattended” button.
3. You can view the reservation details made by the delegate by clicking
the “view button”
4. You can filter the attendees based on the selected session track by
clicking the “filter” button.
Viewing the AASHPI Gross Income (Admin)
1. You can view the AASHPI Gross Income by seeing this panel at the
lower part of admin dashboard.
134
Navigating Sidebar Menu (All Users)
1. At the left side of the user’s dashboard, you can see the sidebar
menu which you can navigate which page would you like to visit.
Navigating Session Table Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the session sidebar menu at the admin/staff dashboard,
the system will link you to the session page.
2. You can edit, view and delete session details by clicking the “edit”
“view” and “delete” button respectively.
3. You can add session by clicking “add session” button.
135
Navigating Membership Type Table Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the membership type table sidebar menu at the
admin/staff dashboard, the system will link you to the membership
type table page.
2. You can edit, view and delete membership type details by clicking the
“edit” “view” and “delete” button respectively.
3. You can add session by clicking “add type” button.
Navigating Book Table Page (Admin and Staff)
136
1. Upon clicking the book sidebar menu at the admin/staff dashboard,
the system will link you to the book table page.
2. You can edit, view and delete book details by clicking the “edit”
“view” and “delete” button respectively.
3. You can add book by clicking “add book” button.
4. You can print book inventory by clicking the “Generate PDF” button.
Navigating Seminar Fee Type Table Page (Admin and Staff)
1. Upon clicking the seminar fee sidebar menu at the admin/staff
dashboard, the system will link you to the seminar fee type table
page.
2. You can edit, view and delete seminar fee type details by clicking the
“edit” “view” and “delete” button respectively.
137
3. You can add seminar fee by clicking “add book” button.
Navigating Session Sales Report Page (Admin)
1. You can view the session sales report by clicking the Session Sales
Sidebar menu (report).
2. You can print session sales report by clicking the “print” button.
Navigating Book Sales Report Page (Admin)
138
1. You can view the book sales report by clicking the Book Sales
Sidebar menu (report).
2. You can print the book sales report by clicking the “Print” Button.
Navigating Membership Sales Report Page (Admin)
1. You can view the membership sales report by clicking the
Membership Sales Sidebar menu (report).
2. You can print the membership sales report by clicking the “Print”
Button.
139
Navigating Email Session Page (Admin and Staff)
1. You can send email to the delegate by clicking “send” button
together with the filling out the textboxes on this page.
Navigating Edit Profile and Log out Drop-down menu (All Users)
140
1. At the upper-right corner of the user’s dashboard, you can click your
username and the system will show the drop-down menu whereas,
you can edit profile or you can log out from the system by clicking
which option would you like.
Navigating Edit Profile Page (All Users)
1. You can edit your profile by clicking the textbox in text field that you
would like to update and click the “Edit” Button.
Navigating Registration Form Page (Delegate)
141
1. You can register the necessary information in the system by filling
out the textbox and click the “submit” button.
Navigating Dashboard (Delegate)
1. You can view the dashboard of the delegate, you will see the three
panels which are membership status, session status, and book status.
142
2. On the left side, you will see the sidebar menu which covers the
dashboard, manage and off-site Payment Procedure.
Navigating Session Reservation Page (Delegate)
1. By clicking the session reservation status panel at the delegate
dashboard, the system will link you to the session table page.
2. At the session table, you can view, reserve and print session details
by clicking the “view”, “reserve”, and “view” button respectively.
3. You can view your payment summary by clicking “Payment
Summary” button.
Navigating Book Reservation Page (Delegate)
143
1. By clicking the book reservation status panel at the delegate
dashboard, the system will link you to the book reservation table
page.
2. By clicking the “view details” button, you can view the book details
and you can reserve if you want by clicking the “reserve” button.
Printing the Session Ticket (Delegate)
1. If the staff approve the session reservation, you can print the session
ticket by clicking the “print” button and this page will show you.
144